So next let's talk about your shell.
The shell is the actual
application running in terminal,
the terminal's kind of the thing, the
actual application within your operating
system that you're running, but
a shell interprets all those commands and
converts them into something
that the OS can understand.
OS X, these days if using
a modern MacBook uses the zsh,
which is a more extensible
version of bash.
It's generally the preferred way of doing
things now, but bash is the default.
bash, you'll find on every Unix-based
operating system from here to whatever.
It's a tongue in cheek.
It's called the Bourne again shell.
I looked this up and I was like,
who is this boring person?
It certainly didn't
deal with Jason Bourne.
Now, it's just a funny name,
I don't think it's named after anybody.
All right, that's just a bit of fun
trivia, but bash is the default,
zsh is considered bash,
they're fairly interchangeable
with some minor differences.
But zsh is the one you're using today
if you're using a modern MacBook,
you might be using bash, that's okay.
None of the commands we're
gonna use today changed.
If you're wondering what
your current shell is, say,
echo $,
echo $ just shows you your current shell.
You can also say echo $shell.
That's one of the reserved words,
kind of like user.
echo $user will tell you your username.
There's a whole list of these.
We won't go into them cuz
they're not super critical.
But just fun shortcuts, if you're like,
what am I actually using?
And if you modify your shell
configuration any way, source,
that shell config will reload your
terminal with the new configuration.
So source ~/.bash_profile will
reload your bash configuration.
This is important cuz you'll modify and
you'll be like, why is nothing working?
You have to reload your shell.
All right, so for this next exercise,
open your shell configuration,
add a line that says,
make your shell tell you good morning.
So now it gets a little more complicated
because I'm not being explicit.
I want you to start getting
some of these into your memory.
So how do we get to the terminal
to say anything back to us?
Does anybody remember
what that command was?
>> Echo.
>> Echo, yes.
So you're gonna say echo,
whatever you want it to say.
If you wanna get fancy,
you can use that $user.
Go ahead and play around with
your shelter fig a little bit,
and you'll see kind of
the built-ins that are there.